--- 
layout: post
title: "About Wholemeal"
nocomments: true
---

Wholemeal Ltd a consultancy run by Malcolm Locke, based in Christchurch, New
Zealand, specialising in internet applications using FOSS.

Malcolm Locke
-------------

Malcolm has approximately 15 years of development and systems administration
experience, cutting his teeth developing high availability Linux clusters in
the UK for the 365 Corporation, serving some of the busiest sports websites in
the world.

Malcolm moved to Christchurch, New Zealand in 2007, and has helped a number of
local companies improve their infrastructure and development processes.

Whilst most of our work is confidential, we pride ourselves in the quality of
work we provide and will be more than happy to provide a list of recent
referees, [contact us](/contact).


Agile development
-----------------

One of the key differences between software engineering and other engineering
disciplines is the capacity for software to be changed. Once the foundations of
a house have been laid, the footprint cannot be easily changed. However,
software is not such a concrete medium.

Agile development practises embrace this capacity for change, accommodating
changes to specifications and requirement priorities throughout the life cycle
of a project. By taking this approach, we are able to deliver maximum value in
the shortest possible time, getting your product to market as soon as possible
and adapting to changing market conditions and user requirements.

User Stories
------------

The first task taken during project planning is to collect 'user stories'.
These are brief descriptions of tasks that users need to be able to perform
using the software. Some example user stories may be a user should be able to
request a new password or an administrator should be able to de-activate
another users account.

We will gather as many of these stories as possible in an initial meeting
between the customer and the development team. At this stage we will not go
into great detail about the function of each user story.  Estimation and
prioritisation

Once the list of possible user stories has been gathered, the development team
will estimate the relative difficulty of each story. This is usually done using
a simple points system, with 1 being the simplest and 5 being the most complex.
We call these 'story points'.

Given this complexity knowledge, the customer will then prioritise the stories,
the most important first and the least important last. This prioritised list of
work is called the 'backlog'.

The development team will then start working on these tasks in the order they
are defined in the backlog.  Iterations and velocity

Each project is split into 'iterations', usually 1 week long but sometimes 2.
At the beginning of each iteration we will meet with the customer and discuss
in detail the stories that will be worked on during the upcoming iteration.

Once two or three iterations have been completed, we average out the number of
story points completed in the previous iterations. This figure is known as
'velocity' and allows us to estimate how long the remaining work in the backlog
will take to complete. It also allows the customer to get a reasonable estimate
of when any one story in the backlog will be complete.

The customer's role
-------------------

The customer plays a key role in the process. If you think of new features, you
can add new stories to the backlog and prioritise them accordingly. If your
business priorities change, or you need a feature sooner than previously
thought, you can simply re-order the priorities.

Only the customer is able to set priorities. This ensures the development team
is focussed on your requirements. We make the backlog available via a web based
tool, so you can check on progress at any time.

Once a feature is complete, the development team will release it to a demo copy
of your software where it is available for you to test. If you think the
feature is complete, you can accept it. If it needs changing, you can reject
it. A feature is only considered complete when you have seen it working and
accept it.

Our tool set allows us to deploy features to live at any time in the project
life cycle. We can deploy new features as soon as they are excepted, or bundle
features into releases. Because we employ test driven development (TDD)
practises, every piece of code is covered by automated tests and the
possibility of introducing bugs into existing code is greatly reduced.

This means we can take your product to market early and continually improve on
it's functionality, and you start gaining revenue and user feedback as soon as
possible.
